.TH prl-disk-tool 8  "25 October 2015" "Virtuozzo"

.SH NAME
prl-disk-tool \- utility for managing virtual machine and Container disks.

.SH SYNOPSIS
prl-disk-tool [\fB\-\-help\fP] <\fICOMMAND\fP> [\fBOPTIONS\fP] \-\-hdd <\fIdisk_name\fP> [\fB\-\-comm\fP <\fImemory_name\fP>]
.PP
prl-disk-tool \fBresize\fP \-\-size <\fIsize\fP>[\fIK\fP|\fIM\fP|\fIG\fP|\fIT\fP] [\fB\-\-resize_partition\fP] \-\-hdd <\fIdisk_name\fP> [\fB\-\-force\fP] [\fB\-\-comm\fP <\fImemory_name\fP>]
.PP
prl-disk-tool \fBresize\fP \fB\-i,\-\-info\fP [\fB\-\-units\fP <\fIK\fP|\fIM\fP|\fIG\fP|\fIT\fP>] \-\-hdd <\fIdisk_name\fP> [\fB\-\-comm\fP <\fImemory_name\fP>]
.PP
prl-disk-tool \fBcompact\fP \-\-hdd <\fIdisk_name\fP> [\fB\-\-force\fP] [\fB\-\-comm\fP <\fImemory_name\fP>]
.PP
prl-disk-tool \fBcompact\fP \fB\-i,\-\-info\fP \-\-hdd <\fIdisk_name\fP> [\fB\-\-comm\fP <\fImemory_name\fP>]
.PP
prl-disk-tool \fBmerge\fP \-\-hdd <\fIdisk_name\fP> [\fB\-\-external\fP]
.PP
prl-disk-tool \fBconvert\fP \-\-hdd <\fIdisk_name\fP> <\fB\-\-expanding|\-\-plain\fP>
.PP
prl-disk-tool \fB\-\-help\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
The prl-disk-tool utility is used to manage virtual disks.

.SH COMMANDS
.IP \fBresize\fP 4
Changes the capacity of the specified virtual disk. During resizing, all data present on the disk volumes are left intact.
You can also resize the last partition using the \fB\-\-resize_partition\fP option. The supported file systems are NTFS, ext2/ext3/ext4, btrfs, xfs.
.IP \fBcompact\fP 4
Removes all empty blocks from expanding virtual disks and reduces their size on your real disk.
Compacting is performed by scanning file systems for unused clusters,
zeroing and discarding corresponding disk blocks. The supported file systems are NTFS, ext2/ext3/ext4, btrfs, xfs.
.IP \fBmerge\fP 4
Merges all snapshots of the virtual hard disk. By default, merges internal snapshots. Use \fB\-\-external\fP to merge external snapshots.
.IP \fBconvert\fP 4
Converts the virtual hard disk into another format (plain or expanding).
.BR

.SH OPTIONS

.SS Common options:
The following options can be used with the majority of prl-disk-tool commands.
.TP
\fB\-\-hdd\fP <\fIdisk_name\fP>
This option is mandatory and specifies the full path to the disk to be configured or compacted.
.TP
\fB\-v,\-\-verbose\fP
Verbose mode: print actions performed and status information (useful with \fB\-n\fP).
.TP
\fB\-n,\-\-dry\-run\fP
Do not actually do anything.
.TP
\fB\-\-comm\fP <\fImemory_name\fP>
This parameter is not currently used.

.SS Disk resizing:
.TP
\fB\-\-size\fP <\fIsize\fP>[\fIK\fP|\fIM\fP|\fIG\fP|\fIT\fP]
Set the virtual hard disk size in KB, MB (by default), GB or TB (this number is rounded up to MB).
.TP
\fB\-\-resize_partition\fP
Resize the last partition and its file system while resizing the disk. The supported file system types are NTFS, ext2/ext3/ext4, btrfs, xfs.
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fP
Forcibly drop the suspended state before resizing the disk (ignored).
.TP
\fB\-i,\-\-info\fP
Display the capacity of the specified virtual disk as it is seen from inside the virtual machine or Container, without
resizing the disk. The information is shown as a table with the following columns:

.br
\fBSize:                <size>M\fP
       The current virtual disk capacity.
.br
\fBMinimum:             <size>M\fP
       The minimum possible capacity of the virtual disk after resizing the disk using the \fB\-\-resize_partition\fP option.
.br
\fBMinimum:             <size>M  (without resizing the last partition)\fP
       The minimum possible capacity of the virtual disk after resizing the disk without using the \fB\-\-resize_partition\fP option.

Keep in mind that for an expanding virtual disk the capacity shown from inside the virtual machine and the
size the disk occupies on the real physical disk may differ.
.TP
\fB\-\-units\fP <\fIK\fP|\fIM\fP|\fIG\fP|\fIT\fP>
Used with the \fB\-\-info\fP option, shows the disk size in KB, MB, GB or TB.

.SS Disk compacting:
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fP
Forcibly drop the suspended state before compacting the disk (ignored).
.TP
\fB\-i,\-\-info\fP
Show the estimated disk size after the compaction without compacting the disk. The results will be shown as:

.br
\fBBlock size:                       <size>\fP
       Block size, in sectors. Each sector is 512 bytes.
.br
\fBTotal blocks:            <sectors_count>\fP
       Total blocks in the disk image (according to the virtual disk image capacity).
.br
\fBAllocated blocks:        <sectors_count>\fP
       The number of blocks that are actually allocated to and keeping space on your hard drive.
.br
\fBUsed blocks:             <sectors_count>\fP
       The number of blocks actually used in the disk image. This number of blocks will be left after compacting the disk.
.SS Snapshot merge
.TP
\fB\-\-external\fP
Merge \fBexternal\fP snapshots instead of \fBinternal\fP (by default).

.SS Conversion
.TP
\fB\-\-expanding\fP
reduce the size of a plain disk to the actual amount of data stored on it and make it expandable allowing it to grow in size as the amount of data grows.
.TP
\fB\-\-plain\fP
convert an expandable disk to a disk of fixed capacity that cannot grow in size.
.SS Other:
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fP [\fB\-\-usage\fP]
Print usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Parallels Holdings, Ltd. and its affiliates.
http://www.parallels.com
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR prlctl (8), qemu-img (1), guestfs (3), virt-sparsify (1), virt-resize (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005\-2015 Parallels Holdings, Ltd. and its affiliates.
